# Vulnerabilities
## Injection
Injection is about inserting external codes to application in order to take
control of the app or read sensitive data.
- SQL Injection
  - Parameterized statements.
  - ORM approach.
  - Principles of least privilege.
  - Blind vs non-blind SQL.
- Command injection
  - Escape control characters
- Remote code execution
  - Serialization: converting data structure to binary data.
  - Deserialization: converting that binary data back to the data structure.
  - Beware of security advises for serialized libraries.
- File upload vulnerability
  - Host file on a secured service (AWS S3, AWS CDN, ...).
  - Make sure uploaded file is not executable.
  - Validate content of uploaded file.
  - Run anti-virus software.

## Cross-site (XSS) scripting attacks
Injection to browser.
- Stored XSS scripting attacks: JS is written from DB and browser executes.
  - Escape HTML characters: control entity -> entity encoding (e.g, `&` => `&amp;`)
  - Implement Content Security Policy: states where javascript source are allowed.
    - `Content-Security-Policy: script-src 'self' https//...`
    - `Content-Security-Policy: script-src 'self'; report-uri https://example.com`
- Reflected XSS scripting attacks: inject malicious JS via HTTP requests.
  - Escape HTML characters.
  - More common in search page or error pages.
- DOM-based XSS scripting attacks: Attacks based on URI fragments. Only client and server cannot detect.
  - Escape HTMl characters.

## Cross-site request forgery attacks (CSRF/XSRF)
Clicking malicious link that generates unintended behaviours. \
`Example`: Previous GET requests on Twitter can create a post => unwanted behaviours.

**Solutions**:

  - Follow REST principles: GET should not change the state of a server.
Similarly, use POST -> modify an object, PUT -> create new object,
DELETE -> delete an object.
  - Implement anti-CSRF cookies: 
    - Users may be tricked into submitting a form/script in a 3rd
    party website controlled by the attacker.
    - Sensitive actions can be performed in reponse to such POST
    requests. We would like to ensure that such actions can only
    come from login requests on our site.
    - *anti-CSRF cookie*: randomized string written out to a named cookie parameter.
    - Server: `Set-Cookie: _xsrf=<random_string_A>` in res.header
    - Browser: `Cookie: _xsrf=<random_string_A>` in req.header
  - SameSite Cookie attribute.
    - By default, any requests coming to site A will be attached a
    last known cookie.
    - Malicious 3rd party website can use this cookie (stolen) to
    create a CSRF attack.
    - `Set-Cookie: _xsrf=<random_string_A>; SameSite=strict` => strip
    any cookie from external sources (not from site A).
    - Would be painful if anytime someone shares a video, you have to 
    login back to your site A.
    - `Set-Cookie: _xsrf=<random_string_A>; SameSite=lax` => only GET
    requests are allowed to send cookies from another site.
  - Bonus: Require Re-authentication for sensitive actions.
    - Like when you are about to pay money via online bank accounts.

## Compromising Authentication
Breaking your logins.

**Solutions**
  - Use third-party authentication.
    - Examples: OAuth(Open Authentication) or OpenID/SAML. The first
    is for an application login with multiple endpoints authorized
    (controlled) while the latter is for federated authentication,
    a single login for multiple applications.
  - Secure your own authentication system.
    - Emails generated by a site (in response to a user's action)
    is called *transactional emails*. Sending those to an unverified
    address will be blocked by ISP for spamming.
    - Need to verify such address by checking DNS for MX record.
    - Beware/Banning disposable email accounts.
    - Securing password-resets: should be short-lived and expired
    after a user has used them.
    - Require complex password.
    - Securely store password:
      - Do not store passwords in *cleartext* storage (as is). Use
        1. Cryptographic hash algorithm => store *hash values*. A
        good library to use is `bcrypt`.
        2. Salting hashses, adding elements of randomness and avoiding
        the use of *rainbow tables*, exposed *hashed values* for a
        known hash algorithm.
    - Requiring Multifactor Authentication (MFA)
      - Requires a returning user to have *at least* two of the
      followings:
        1. Something they know.
        2. Something they have.
        3. Something they are.
    - Securing the logout
      - Logging out should clear session cookie in the browser *and*
      invalidate the session identifier on the server side.
    - Preventing user enumeration
      - Keep the messages generic.
      - Implementing CAPTCHA (Completely Automated Public Turing Test
      to tell Computer and Human Apart).

## Session Hijacking
A *session* is a conversation between browser and the server via HTTP
requests of an authenticated user.

A hacker can steal someone else's valid session while it's in progress.
This is called *session hijacking*.

There are 3 ways:
  - **Cookie theft**
    - Server-side session: session state stored in memory(cache)/
    database from the server => scalability problem.
    - Client-side session: session state stored in the browser
    => security issue: either encrypt session state before sending
    back to the client or digitally sign the session state.
    - To prevent, `Set-Cookie: session_state=<...>; HttpOnly; Secure;
    SameSite=Lax` returned by the server.
      - `HttpOnly` => prevent JS script from reading `Cookie` header.
      - `Secure` => prevent *man-in-the-middle* attack, sniffing
      traffics between browser and the server.
      - `SameSite=Lax` => prevent CSRF attack, an indirect interaction
      on your site by the hacker.
  - **Session fixation**
    - For legacy websites.
    - An attacker attach a dummy sessionId on the URL and send the link
    with that sessionId to a user, who authenticate the link, and now
    the dummy sessionId becomes the real sessionId.
  - **Weak session IDs**
    - Brute-force attack on sessionId.
    - Guess the seeds value. Rarely a random number is generated
    in software development.
    - The seeds value ranges from system-clock to some hashed object
    => use strong generated-random value.

## Permission

Facebook's 2018 debacle: hacker exploits a bug in video uploading and
generates access tokens to compromise nearly 50 millions users'
accounts.

  - *Privilege escalation*: a malicious user usurps the permission of
  another user.
    - *Vertical escalation*: a hacker tries to access root's permission
    => usurp the user's permission. (e.g, by installing *web shell* on
    an OS in which a web server is running)
    - *Horizontal escalation*: access another account with similar 
    privilege. Similar to Facebook's debacle, an API
    that grants access tokens without checking user's permission.
    Others including: guessing passwords, session hijacking,
    maliciously crafted HTTP requests.
  
  - *Directory traversal*: use to download files which an attacker
  is not supposed to by traversing back URL. \
  Example: `https://some_host/menu=../../file/pwd.pdf`


**Solutions**:
### Access Control
The process of securing users to correctly identify them with 
permissions.

  - **Authentication**: Correctly identify a user when he/she returns 
  to the site.
  - **Authorization**: Assign to the user what he/she are allowed and
  not allowed to do.
  - **Permission checking**: Check these permissions every time
  a user performs a sensitive action.

A good access control includes:
  1. Choosing an authorization model
      - **Access Control Lists(ACLs)**: similar to how
      Linux filesystem, or SQL DB works, etc...
      - **Whitelists and Blacklists**: similar to
      browsers, or email filtering.
      - **Role-Based Access Control(RBAC)**: AWS IAM,
      MS Active Directory,...
      - **Ownership-Based Access Control**: Facebook,
      Instagram,...
  2. Implementing an access control
  3. Testing the access control
  4. Implementing audit trails
      - *Audit trails* are log files everytime a user
      performs an action => diagnose the problems.
  5. Avoiding common oversights
      - *Security through obscurity*: relying on
      an attacker unable to guess the URL => a security risk.
      - Particularly important for sites designed to *embargo*
      resources, making them accessible at only a certain point
      in time.

Mitigations for directory traversal:
  1. Serve files using web server.
  2. Use a hosting service: CDN, AWS S3 or CMS,...
  3. Use indirect file reference: assign a file served
  on local disk a unique ID, which references to a path
  inside a database.
  4. Sanitize file references: banning file separator,
  including encoded ones, or using regex (third-party codes)

## Information Leaks

Revealing techstacks of your software => security problems

**Solutions**:

  1. Disable `Server` header. (or wrong `Server` header).
  2. Use clean URLs (without extensions `.php`,  `.js`, etc...)
  3. Use generic cookie params, so that attackers cannot recognize
  your language stacks.
  4. Silent all client errors (e.g, use `webpack`)
  5. Minify and/or obfuscate JS codes (e.g, `uglifyJS`)
  6. Sanitize client-side files (with `webpack`, for example)

Also stay up-to-date  with security updates.

## Encryption
HTTPS (HTTP Secure) is HTTP protocol that uses TLS (Transport Layer
Security). There are 3 stages of communication between browser and
server after TLS handshake (cipher suites):

  - Key-exchange algorithm.
  - Exchanging TCP data using the above encryption key from
  a digital cert (most likely Let's Encrypt).
  - Assigning each such package a MAC (Message Authentication Code)
  hashed by the encryption key.

Steps:
  1. Enabling HTTPS
      - To obtain digital certificate from a certified certificate
      distributor (e.g, Let's Encrypt,...)
      - Generate a CSR(*Certificate signing request*) from a private 
      key:
      `openssl req -new -key ./private.key -out ./request.csr`
      (contains the public key and domain name)
      - Domain verification: Authority verifies that you have EDIT 
      right and you own the domain. Some have *extended validation
      certificates*
      - Certs need to be renewed.
      - *Self-signed ceritificate* is used for testing env.
      - Configs your web-server's Nginx to use HTTPS:

      ```
      server {
        listen                443 ssl;
        server_name           www.example.com;
        ssl_certificate       www.example.com.srt;
        ssl_certificate_key   www.example.com.key;
        ssl_protocols         TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3;
        ssl_ciphers           HIGH:!aNULL:!MD5;
      }
      ```
      This is called *terminating* HTTPS at web-server because there
      are no TSL in communication between web-server and application-
      server.
  
      - Redirecting HTTP to HTTPS,

      ```
      server {
        listen                80 default_server;
        server_name            _;
        return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
      }
      ```

      - Strict Transport Security: ensure HTTPS only


## Third-party modules
  - Secure your env variables and use AWS System Management Parameter
  - Watch out for an attack vector from a 3rd party service.

## XML attacks
  - XML (Extensible Markup Language) is a machine-readable equivalence
  of HTML.
  - JSON and YAML has started to be using more than XML.
  - Nevertheless, XML remains a vulnerability worth an attention.
  - There are 2 types of grammar files: DTDs (Document Type 
  Definition) and XSDs (XML Schema Definition). DTDs are
  more vulnerable to XML Bombs and XML external entity attack.
  - XML Bombs: overloading the XML parser => creating DDoS (Denial
  of Service Attack).
  - XML external entity attack: send http or file://, making
  server-side request response back an XML file with sensitive
  information.

=> disable inline DTDs parsing.

## Accessory
  - Be careful of phishing links, email spams and  clickjacking.
  - Clickjacking is a vulnerable by tricking a user to click an
  iframe of another website, but infact clicking on a URL
  that an attacker controls.

  ```
  Content-Security-Policy: frame-ancestors 'self'
  ```

## Denial of Service Attacks
  - Making it unavailable to other users.
  - **Types**:
      1. Internet Control Message Protocol Attacks (ICMP):
      overloading with 'ping' message/corrupted  message.
      2. Transmission Control Protocol Attacks: overloading
      with SYN handshakes.
      3. Application Layer Attacks: abusing HTTP requests
      to overload the server's connection pool. (e.g, 
      XML bombs,...) 
      4. Reflected and Amplified attacks: taking
      advantage of 3rd-party service to "reflect" or "amplify"
      attack.
      5. Distributed DoS attacks: coming from a multiple,
      coordinating sources. In addition to reflection,
      these are also from botnet.
      6. Unintentional surge in users' activity: Reddig *hug
      of death*.
  - **Mitigation**:
      1. Firewalls and Intrusion Prevention Systems
      2. Distributed DoS Protection Service (usually offered by CDN)
      3. Building for Scale: CDN to offload serving static contents;
      Memcache, Redis for caching database queries; using asynchronous
      for long-running tasks (AWS SQS); deploying multiple web-servers.
